4.0	Using Scripture to Make Requests: Promises and Scripture Prayers (version: CSB)

-------

4.1.{3}	Promises for Help with Prayer
4.2.{3}	Promises to Answer Prayer
4.3.{3}	Promises of God’s Intention to Save Us
4.4.{3}	Promises of God’s Intention to Save the Nations
4.5.{3}	Promises of God’s Love for His People
4.6.{3}	Promises to the Church
4.7.{3}	Promises to Shepherds
4.8.{3}	Promises on the Power of God’s Word
4.9.{3}	Promises to Send Revival
4.10.{3}	Promises of The Holy Spirit’s Powerful Ministry
4.11.{3}	Promises that God Will Make Us His Possession
4.12.{3}.1	The meaning of the promise “God with us”:
4.12.{3}.2	Promises that God Will Be “With Us”
4.13.{3}	Promises that God Will Draw Near
4.14.{3}	Promises that God Will Manifest His Favor
4.15.{3}	Promises to Believers Struggling with Sin
4.16.{3}	Promises to Give His People Strength
4.17.{3}	Promises to Give Light in the Darkness
4.18.{3}	Promises to Those Who are Afflicted
4.19.{3}	Promises to Those Who are Anxious and Afraid
4.20.{3}	Promises Regarding Wisdom
4.21.{3}	Promises to Give Guidance
4.22.{3}	Promises to Give Needed Provision
4.23.{3}	Promises to Give Needed Protection
4.24.{3}	Promises that God is Fighting for His People
4.25.{3}	Promises on the Power of the Cross Over Satan
4.26.{3}	Promises to Save Our Children and Future Generations
4.27.{3}	Promises to Those Who Seek God
4.28.{3}	Promises to Those Who Fear God
4.29.{3}	Promises to the Humble
4.30.{3}	Promises to the Generous
4.31.{3}	Promises to the Obedient
4.32.{3}	Promises to Those Facing Death

-------

4.1.{3}	Promises for Help with Prayer
（Zeph 3:9）	For I will then restore pure speech to the peoples so that all of them may call on the name of the LORD and serve him with a single purpose.
（Zech 12:10）	“Then I will pour out a spirit of grace and prayer on the house of David and the residents of Jerusalem, and they will look at me whom they pierced. They will mourn for him as one mourns for an only child and weep bitterly for him as one weeps for a firstborn.
（Rom 8:26-27）	In the same way the Spirit also helps us in our weakness, because we do not know what to pray for as we should, but the Spirit himself intercedes for us with unspoken groanings.And he who searches our hearts knows the mind of the Spirit, because he intercedes for the saints according to the will of God.
（Gal 4:6）	And because you are sons, God sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, “Abba, Father!”

4.2.{3}	Promises to Answer Prayer
（2Chr 7:14）	and my people, who bear my name, humble themselves, pray and seek my face, and turn from their evil ways, then I will hear from heaven, forgive their sin, and heal their land.
（2Chr 34:27）	because your heart was tender and you humbled yourself before God when you heard his words against this place and against its inhabitants, and because you humbled yourself before me, and you tore your clothes and wept before me, I myself have heard’ — this is the LORD’s declaration.
（Job 33:26）	He will pray to God, and God will delight in him. That person will see his face with a shout of joy, and God will restore his righteousness to him.
（Ps 2:8）	Ask of me, and I will make the nations your inheritance and the ends of the earth your possession.
（Ps 34:4-5）	I sought the LORD, and he answered me and rescued me from all my fears.Those who look to him are radiant with joy; their faces will never be ashamed.
（Ps 37:4-5）	Take delight in the LORD, and he will give you your heart’s desires.Commit your way to the LORD; trust in him, and he will act,
（Ps 66:18-20）	If I had been aware of malice in my heart, the Lord would not have listened.However, God has listened; he has paid attention to the sound of my prayer.Blessed be God! He has not turned away my prayer or turned his faithful love from me.
（Ps 72:12）	For he will rescue the poor who cry out and the afflicted who have no helper.
（Ps 86:7）	I call on you in the day of my distress, for you will answer me.
（Ps 91:15-16）	When he calls out to me, I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble. I will rescue him and give him honor.I will satisfy him with a long life and show him my salvation.
（Ps 102:17）	He will pay attention to the prayer of the destitute and will not despise their prayer.
（Ps 118:5）	I called to the LORD in distress; the LORD answered me and put me in a spacious place.
（Ps 145:18-19）	The LORD is near all who call out to him, all who call out to him with integrity.He fulfills the desires of those who fear him; he hears their cry for help and saves them.
（Isa 30:19）	For people will live on Zion in Jerusalem. You will never weep again; he will show favor to you at the sound of your outcry; as soon as he hears, he will answer you.
（Isa 58:8-9）	Then your light will appear like the dawn, and your recovery will come quickly. Your righteousness will go before you, and the LORD’s glory will be your rear guard.At that time, when you call, the LORD will answer; when you cry out, he will say, ‘Here I am.’ If you get rid of the yoke among you, the finger-pointing and malicious speaking,
（Isa 64:4）	From ancient times no one has heard, no one has listened to, no eye has seen any God except you who acts on behalf of the one who waits for him.
（Jer 29:12-13）	You will call to me and come and pray to me, and I will listen to you.You will seek me and find me when you search for me with all your heart.
（Dan 10:12）	“Don’t be afraid, Daniel,” he said to me, “for from the first day that you purposed to understand and to humble yourself before your God, your prayers were heard. I have come because of your prayers.
（Dan 9:23）	At the beginning of your petitions an answer went out, and I have come to give it, for you are treasured by God. So consider the message and understand the vision:
（Hos 14:8）	Ephraim, why should I have anything more to do with idols? It is I who answer and watch over him. I am like a flourishing pine tree; your fruit comes from me.
（Matt 6:8）	Don’t be like them, because your Father knows the things you need before you ask him.
（Matt 7:8）	For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks, the door will be opened.
（Mark 11:24）	Therefore I tell you, everything you pray and ask for  —  believe that you have received it and it will be yours.
（Luke 11:13）	If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him?”
（John 14:13-14）	Whatever you ask in my name, I will do it so that the Father may be glorified in the Son.If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it.
（John 15:7）	If you remain in me and my words remain in you, ask whatever you want and it will be done for you.
（John 15:16）	You did not choose me, but I chose you. I appointed you to go and produce fruit and that your fruit should remain, so that whatever you ask the Father in my name, he will give you.
（John 16:23-24）	“In that day you will not ask me anything. Truly I tell you, anything you ask the Father in my name, he will give you.Until now you have asked for nothing in my name. Ask and you will receive, so that your joy may be complete.
（Rom 5:2）	We have also obtained access through him by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God.
（Eph 2:18）	For through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father.
（Eph 3:11-12）	This is according to his eternal purpose accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord.In him we have boldness and confident access through faith in him.
（Eph 3:20）	Now to him who is able to do above and beyond all that we ask or think according to the power that works in us —
（Phil 4:6-7）	Don’t worry about anything, but in everything, through prayer and petition with thanksgiving, present your requests to God.And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus.
（Heb 4:15-16）	For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in every way as we are, yet without sin.Therefore, let us approach the throne of grace with boldness, so that we may receive mercy and find grace to help us in time of need.
（Jas 5:16）	Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another, so that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person is very powerful in its effect.
（1John 5:14-15）	This is the confidence we have before him: If we ask anything according to his will, he hears us.And if we know that he hears whatever we ask, we know that we have what we have asked of him.

4.3.{3}	Promises of God’s Intention to Save Us
（Ps 106:8）	Yet he saved them for his name’s sake, to make his power known.
（Ezek 36:25-27）	I will also sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all your impurities and all your idols.I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you; I will remove your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh.I will place my Spirit within you and cause you to follow my statutes and carefully observe my ordinances.
（Ps 107:20）	He sent his word and healed them; he rescued them from the Pit.
（Isa 45:17）	Israel will be saved by the LORD with an everlasting salvation; you will not be put to shame or humiliated for all eternity.
（Isa 55:5）	so you will summon a nation you do not know, and nations who do not know you will run to you. For the LORD your God, even the Holy One of Israel, has glorified you.”
（Isa 65:1）	“I was sought by those who did not ask; I was found by those who did not seek me. I said, ‘Here I am, here I am,’ to a nation that did not call on my name.
（Jer 50:4-5）	In those days and at that time — this is the LORD’s declaration — the Israelites and Judeans will come together, weeping as they come, and will seek the LORD their God.They will ask about Zion, turning their faces to this road. They will come and join themselves to the LORD in a permanent covenant that will never be forgotten.
（Ezek 11:19-20）	I will give them integrity of heart and put a new spirit within them; I will remove their heart of stone from their bodies and give them a heart of flesh,so that they will follow my statutes, keep my ordinances, and practice them. They will be my people, and I will be their God.
（Ezek 18:23）	Do I take any pleasure in the death of the wicked?” This is the declaration of the Lord GOD. “Instead, don’t I take pleasure when he turns from his ways and lives?
（Ezek 18:32）	For I take no pleasure in anyone’s death.” This is the declaration of the Lord GOD. “So repent and live!
（Hos 2:19-20）	I will take you to be my wife forever. I will take you to be my wife in righteousness, justice, love, and compassion.I will take you to be my wife in faithfulness, and you will know the LORD.
（Joel 2:32）	Then everyone who calls on the name of the LORD will be saved, for there will be an escape for those on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem, as the LORD promised, among the survivors the LORD calls.
（Luke 5:32）	I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.”
（Luke 19:10）	For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save the lost.”
（John 5:24-25）	“Truly I tell you, anyone who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life and will not come under judgment but has passed from death to life.“Truly I tell you, an hour is coming, and is now here, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live.
（John 6:37）	Everyone the Father gives me will come to me, and the one who comes to me I will never cast out.
（John 6:65）	He said, “This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted to him by the Father.”
（John 10:9）	I am the gate. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will come in and go out and find pasture.
（John 11:25-26）	Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. The one who believes in me, even if he dies, will live.Everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this?”
（John 14:6）	Jesus told him, “I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.
（John 20:31）	But these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name.
（Acts 2:38-39）	Peter replied, “Repent and be baptized, each of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.For the promise is for you and for your children, and for all who are far off, as many as the Lord our God will call.”
（Acts 3:19-20）	Therefore repent and turn back, so that your sins may be wiped out,that seasons of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord, and that he may send Jesus, who has been appointed for you as the Messiah.
（Acts 11:18）	When they heard this they became silent. And they glorified God, saying, “So then, God has given repentance resulting in life even to the Gentiles.”
（Acts 13:38）	Therefore, let it be known to you, brothers and sisters, that through this man forgiveness of sins is being proclaimed to you.
（Acts 16:31）	They said, “Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved — you and your household.”
（Acts 26:18）	to open their eyes so that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and a share among those who are sanctified by faith in me.’
（Rom 1:16）	For I am not ashamed of the gospel, because it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, first to the Jew, and also to the Greek.
（Rom 4:5）	But to the one who does not work, but believes on him who declares the ungodly to be righteous, his faith is credited for righteousness.
（Rom 5:1）	Therefore, since we have been declared righteous by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ.
（Rom 5:8）	But God proves his own love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us.
（Rom 8:1）	Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those in Christ Jesus,
（Rom 9:16）	So then, it does not depend on human will or effort but on God who shows mercy.
（Rom 10:4）	For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes,
（Rom 10:9）	If you confess with your mouth, “Jesus is Lord,” and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.
（Rom 10:12-13）	since there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, because the same Lord of all richly blesses all who call on him.For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.
（Rom 10:17）	So faith comes from what is heard, and what is heard comes through the message about Christ.
（1Cor 1:18）	For the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but it is the power of God to us who are being saved.
（1Cor 15:22）	For just as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive.
（1Cor 15:49）	And just as we have borne the image of the man of dust, we will also bear the image of the man of heaven.
（2Cor 5:19）	That is, in Christ, God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and he has committed the message of reconciliation to us.
（2Cor 5:21）	He made the one who did not know sin to be sin for us, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.
（1Thess 5:9）	For God did not appoint us to wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
（Eph 2:8-9）	For you are saved by grace through faith, and this is not from yourselves; it is God’s gift —not from works, so that no one can boast.
（1Tim 2:3-4）	This is good, and it pleases God our Savior,who wants everyone to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth.
（2Tim 1:10）	This has now been made evident through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who has abolished death and has brought life and immortality to light through the gospel.
（Titus 3:5-6）	he saved us  —not by works of righteousness that we had done, but according to his mercy  — through the washing of regeneration and renewal by the Holy Spirit.He poured out his Spirit on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior
（Heb 7:25）	Therefore, he is able to save completely those who come to God through him, since he always lives to intercede for them.
（Heb 8:10-12）	For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord: I will put my laws into their minds and write them on their hearts. I will be their God, and they will be my people.And each person will not teach his fellow citizen, and each his brother or sister, saying, “Know the Lord,” because they will all know me, from the least to the greatest of them.For I will forgive their wrongdoing, and I will never again remember their sins.
（Heb 9:26）	Otherwise, he would have had to suffer many times since the foundation of the world. But now he has appeared one time, at the end of the ages, for the removal of sin by the sacrifice of himself.
（Heb 10:14）	For by one offering he has perfected forever those who are sanctified.
（2Pet 3:9）	The Lord does not delay his promise, as some understand delay, but is patient with you, not wanting any to perish but all to come to repentance.
（1John 5:11-12）	And this is the testimony: God has given us eternal life, and this life is in his Son.The one who has the Son has life. The one who does not have the Son of God does not have life.
（1John 5:20）	And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding so that we may know the true one. We are in the true one — that is, in his Son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life.
（Rev 1:5）	and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn from the dead and the ruler of the kings of the earth. To him who loves us and has set us free from our sins by his blood,
（Rev 22:17）	Both the Spirit and the bride say, “Come!” Let anyone who hears, say, “Come!” Let the one who is thirsty come. Let the one who desires take the water of life freely.

4.4.{3}	Promises of God’s Intention to Save the Nations
（Gen 22:18）	And all the nations of the earth will be blessed by your offspring because you have obeyed my command.”
（Ps 2:8）	Ask of me, and I will make the nations your inheritance and the ends of the earth your possession.
（Ps 86:9）	All the nations you have made will come and bow down before you, Lord, and will honor your name.
（Isa 49:6）	he says, “It is not enough for you to be my servant raising up the tribes of Jacob and restoring the protected ones of Israel. I will also make you a light for the nations, to be my salvation to the ends of the earth.”
（Mark 11:17）	He was teaching them: “Is it not written, My house will be called a house of prayer for all nations? But you have made it a den of thieves!”
（Isa 61:11）	For as the earth produces its growth, and as a garden enables what is sown to spring up, so the Lord GOD will cause righteousness and praise to spring up before all the nations.
（Jer 4:1-2）	If you return, Israel — this is the LORD’s declaration — you will return to me, if you remove your abhorrent idols from my presence and do not waver,then you can swear, “As the LORD lives,” in truth, in justice, and in righteousness, then the nations will be blessed by him and will pride themselves in him.
（Ezek 38:23）	I will display my greatness and holiness, and will reveal myself in the sight of many nations. Then they will know that I am the LORD.’
（Mal 1:11）	“My name will be great among the nations, from the rising of the sun to its setting. Incense and pure offerings will be presented in my name in every place because my name will be great among the nations,” says the LORD of Armies.
（Mal 1:14）	“The deceiver is cursed who has an acceptable male in his flock and makes a vow but sacrifices a defective animal to the Lord. For I am a great King,” says the LORD of Armies, “and my name will be feared among the nations.
（Matt 24:14）	This good news of the kingdom will be proclaimed in all the world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come.
（Rom 1:5）	Through him we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the Gentiles,
（Rom 16:25-26）	Now to him who is able to strengthen you according to my gospel and the proclamation about Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery kept silent for long agesbut now revealed and made known through the prophetic Scriptures, according to the command of the eternal God to advance the obedience of faith among all the Gentiles —
（Rev 7:9-10）	After this I looked, and there was a vast multitude from every nation, tribe, people, and language, which no one could number, standing before the throne and before the Lamb. They were clothed in white robes with palm branches in their hands.And they cried out in a loud voice: Salvation belongs to our God, who is seated on the throne, and to the Lamb!

4.5.{3}	Promises of God’s Love for His People
（Deut 33:3）	Indeed he loves the people. All your holy ones are in your hand, and they assemble at your feet. Each receives your words.
（Ps 32:10）	Many pains come to the wicked, but the one who trusts in the LORD will have faithful love surrounding him.
（Ps 33:18）	But look, the LORD keeps his eye on those who fear him — those who depend on his faithful love
（Ps 62:12）	and faithful love belongs to you, LORD. For you repay each according to his works.
（Ps 86:5）	For you, Lord, are kind and ready to forgive, abounding in faithful love to all who call on you.
（Ps 89:14）	Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne; faithful love and truth go before you.
（Ps 103:4）	He redeems your life from the Pit; he crowns you with faithful love and compassion.
（Ps 103:8）	The LORD is compassionate and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in faithful love.
（Ps 103:11）	For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his faithful love toward those who fear him.
（Prov 16:6）	Iniquity is atoned for by loyalty and faithfulness, and one turns from evil by the fear of the LORD.
（Isa 49:15）	“Can a woman forget her nursing child, or lack compassion for the child of her womb? Even if these forget, yet I will not forget you.
（Isa 54:10）	Though the mountains move and the hills shake, my love will not be removed from you and my covenant of peace will not be shaken,” says your compassionate LORD.
（Lam 3:22）	Because of the LORD’s faithful love we do not perish, for his mercies never end.
（Lam 3:32）	Even if he causes suffering, he will show compassion according to the abundance of his faithful love.
（Mic 7:18）	Who is a God like you, forgiving iniquity and passing over rebellion for the remnant of his inheritance? He does not hold on to his anger forever because he delights in faithful love.
（Ps 139:16-18）	Your eyes saw me when I was formless; all my days were written in your book and planned before a single one of them began.God, how precious your thoughts are to me; how vast their sum is!If I counted them, they would outnumber the grains of sand; when I wake up, I am still with you.
（Ps 142:3）	Although my spirit is weak within me, you know my way. Along this path I travel they have hidden a trap for me.
（Hos 3:1）	Then the LORD said to me, “Go again; show love to a woman who is loved by another man and is an adulteress, just as the LORD loves the Israelites though they turn to other gods and love raisin cakes.”
（Zeph 3:17）	The LORD your God is among you, a warrior who saves. He will rejoice over you with gladness. He will be quiet in his love. He will delight in you with singing.”
（Matt 10:29-31）	Aren’t two sparrows sold for a penny? Yet not one of them falls to the ground without your Father’s consent.But even the hairs of your head have all been counted.So don’t be afraid; you are worth more than many sparrows.
（John 15:9）	“As the Father has loved me, I have also loved you. Remain in my love.
（Rom 1:7）	To all who are in Rome, loved by God, called as saints. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
（Rom 8:31-32）	What then are we to say about these things? If God is for us, who is against us?He did not even spare his own Son but offered him up for us all. How will he not also with him grant us everything?
（Rom 8:38-39）	For I am persuaded that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present nor things to come, nor powers,nor height nor depth, nor any other created thing will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
（Eph 1:4-5）	For he chose us in him, before the foundation of the world, to be holy and blameless in love before him.He predestined us to be adopted as sons through Jesus Christ for himself, according to the good pleasure of his will,
（1John 3:1）	See what great love the Father has given us that we should be called God’s children — and we are! The reason the world does not know us is that it didn’t know him.
（1John 4:9-10）	God’s love was revealed among us in this way: God sent his one and only Son into the world so that we might live through him.Love consists in this: not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son to be the atoning sacrifice for our sins.
（2Sam 22:20）	He brought me out to a spacious place; he rescued me because he delighted in me.
（Ps 37:23-24）	A person’s steps are established by the LORD, and he takes pleasure in his way.Though he falls, he will not be overwhelmed, because the LORD supports him with his hand.
（Ps 44:3）	For they did not take the land by their sword — their arm did not bring them victory — but by your right hand, your arm, and the light of your face, because you were favorable toward them.
（Isa 40:11）	He protects his flock like a shepherd; he gathers the lambs in his arms and carries them in the fold of his garment. He gently leads those that are nursing.
（Ps 103:5）	He satisfies you with good things; your youth is renewed like the eagle.
（Ps 107:9）	For he has satisfied the thirsty and filled the hungry with good things.

4.6.{3}	Promises to the Church
（Ps 130:8）	And he will redeem Israel from all its iniquities.
（Ps 87:5-6）	And it will be said of Zion, “This one and that one were born in her.” The Most High himself will establish her.When he registers the peoples, the LORD will record, “This one was born there.” Selah
（Ps 133:1）	A song of ascents. Of David. [1] How good and pleasant it is when brothers live together in harmony!
（Ps 133:3）	It is like the dew of Hermon falling on the mountains of Zion. For there the LORD has appointed the blessing — life forevermore.
（Ps 135:14）	For the LORD will vindicate his people and have compassion on his servants.
（Isa 49:15）	“Can a woman forget her nursing child, or lack compassion for the child of her womb? Even if these forget, yet I will not forget you.
（Isa 54:1）	“Rejoice, childless one, who did not give birth; burst into song and shout, you who have not been in labor! For the children of the desolate one will be more than the children of the married woman,” says the LORD.
（Gal 4:27-29）	For it is written, Rejoice, childless woman, unable to give birth. Burst into song and shout, you who are not in labor, for the children of the desolate woman will be many, more numerous than those of the woman who has a husband.Now you too, brothers and sisters, like Isaac, are children of promise.But just as then the child born as a result of the flesh persecuted the one born as a result of the Spirit, so also now.
（Isa 56:7）	I will bring them to my holy mountain and let them rejoice in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and sacrifices will be acceptable on my altar, for my house will be called a house of prayer for all nations.”
（Isa 58:10-12）	and if you offer yourself to the hungry, and satisfy the afflicted one, then your light will shine in the darkness, and your night will be like noonday.The LORD will always lead you, satisfy you in a parched land, and strengthen your bones. You will be like a watered garden and like a spring whose water never runs dry.Some of you will rebuild the ancient ruins; you will restore the foundations laid long ago; you will be called the repairer of broken walls, the restorer of streets where people live.
（Isa 60:1-5）	Arise, shine, for your light has come, and the glory of the LORD shines over you.For look, darkness will cover the earth, and total darkness the peoples; but the LORD will shine over you, and his glory will appear over you.Nations will come to your light, and kings to your shining brightness.Raise your eyes and look around: they all gather and come to you; your sons will come from far away, and your daughters on the hips of nannies.Then you will see and be radiant, and your heart will tremble and rejoice, because the riches of the sea will become yours and the wealth of the nations will come to you.
（Isa 60:15）	Instead of your being deserted and hated, with no one passing through, I will make you an object of eternal pride, a joy from age to age.
（Isa 62:2-4）	Nations will see your righteousness and all kings, your glory. You will be given a new name that the LORD’s mouth will announce.You will be a glorious crown in the LORD’s hand, and a royal diadem in the palm of your God’s hand.You will no longer be called Deserted, and your land will not be called Desolate; instead, you will be called My Delight Is in Her, and your land Married; for the LORD delights in you, and your land will be married.
（Jer 31:31）	“Look, the days are coming”  — this is the LORD’s declaration — “when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah.
（Jer 31:33-34）	“Instead, this is the covenant I will make with the house of Israel after those days” — the LORD’s declaration. “I will put my teaching within them and write it on their hearts. I will be their God, and they will be my people.No longer will one teach his neighbor or his brother, saying, ‘Know the LORD,’ for they will all know me, from the least to the greatest of them”  — this is the LORD’s declaration. “For I will forgive their iniquity and never again remember their sin.
（Jer 31:9）	They will come weeping, but I will bring them back with consolation. I will lead them to wadis filled with water, by a smooth way where they will not stumble, for I am Israel’s Father, and Ephraim is my firstborn.
（Ezek 34:31）	You are my flock, the human flock of my pasture, and I am your God. This is the declaration of the Lord GOD.’”
（Ezek 37:26-28）	I will make a covenant of peace with them; it will be a permanent covenant with them. I will establish and multiply them and will set my sanctuary among them forever.My dwelling place will be with them; I will be their God, and they will be my people.When my sanctuary is among them forever, the nations will know that I, the LORD, sanctify Israel.’”
（Dan 7:27）	The kingdom, dominion, and greatness of the kingdoms under all of heaven will be given to the people, the holy ones of the Most High. His kingdom will be an everlasting kingdom, and all rulers will serve and obey him.’
（Hos 1:10）	Yet the number of the Israelites will be like the sand of the sea, which cannot be measured or counted. And in the place where they were told: You are not my people, they will be called: Sons of the living God.
（Rom 9:24-26）	on us, the ones he also called, not only from the Jews but also from the Gentiles?As it also says in Hosea, I will call Not My People, My People, and she who is Unloved, Beloved.And it will be in the place where they were told, you are not my people, there they will be called sons of the living God.
（Mic 4:1-2）	In the last days the mountain of the LORD’s house will be established at the top of the mountains and will be raised above the hills. Peoples will stream to it,and many nations will come and say, “Come, let us go up to the mountain of the LORD, to the house of the God of Jacob. He will teach us about his ways so we may walk in his paths.” For instruction will go out of Zion and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.
（Mic 7:15）	I will perform miracles for them as in the days of your exodus from the land of Egypt.
（Zeph 3:11-12）	On that day you will not be put to shame because of everything you have done in rebelling against me. For then I will remove from among you your jubilant, arrogant people, and you will never again be haughty on my holy mountain.I will leave a meek and humble people among you, and they will take refuge in the name of the LORD.
（Zeph 3:19-20）	Yes, at that time I will deal with all who oppress you. I will save the lame and gather the outcasts; I will make those who were disgraced throughout the earth receive praise and fame.At that time I will bring you back, yes, at the time I will gather you. I will give you fame and praise among all the peoples of the earth, when I restore your fortunes before your eyes. The LORD has spoken.
（Zech 2:5）	The declaration of the LORD: “I myself will be a wall of fire around it, and I will be the glory within it.”
（Hag 2:5）	This is the promise I made to you when you came out of Egypt, and my Spirit is present among you; don’t be afraid.’”
（Zech 2:10-11）	“Daughter Zion, shout for joy and be glad, for I am coming to dwell among you” — this is the LORD’s declaration.“Many nations will join themselves to the LORD on that day and become my people. I will dwell among you, and you will know that the LORD of Armies has sent me to you.
（Zech 8:8）	I will bring them back to live in Jerusalem. They will be my people, and I will be their faithful and righteous God.”
（Zech 9:16-17）	The LORD their God will save them on that day as the flock of his people; for they are like jewels in a crown, sparkling over his land.How lovely and beautiful! Grain will make the young men flourish, and new wine, the young women.
（Matt 13:43）	Then the righteous will shine like the sun in their Father’s kingdom. Let anyone who has ears listen.
（Matt 16:18-19）	And I also say to you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overpower it.I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth will have been bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will have been loosed in heaven.”
（Matt 21:13）	He said to them, “It is written, my house will be called a house of prayer, but you are making it a den of thieves!”
（Matt 25:34）	Then the King will say to those on his right, ‘Come, you who are blessed by my Father; inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.
（Matt 28:19-20）	Go, therefore, and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,teaching them to observe everything I have commanded you. And remember, I am with you always, to the end of the age.”
（John 10:4）	When he has brought all his own outside, he goes ahead of them. The sheep follow him because they know his voice.
（John 10:14-15）	“I am the good shepherd. I know my own, and my own know me,just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father. I lay down my life for the sheep.
（John 10:27-28）	My sheep hear my voice, I know them, and they follow me.I give them eternal life, and they will never perish. No one will snatch them out of my hand.
（John 17:6）	“I have revealed your name to the people you gave me from the world. They were yours, you gave them to me, and they have kept your word.
（John 17:23）	I am in them and you are in me, so that they may be made completely one, that the world may know you have sent me and have loved them as you have loved me.
（John 17:24）	“Father, I want those you have given me to be with me where I am, so that they will see my glory, which you have given me because you loved me before the world’s foundation.
（John 17:26）	I made your name known to them and will continue to make it known, so that the love you have loved me with may be in them and I may be in them.”
（Acts 20:28）	Be on guard for yourselves and for all the flock of which the Holy Spirit has appointed you as overseers, to shepherd the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood.
（1Cor 2:16）	For who has known the Lord’s mind, that he may instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ.
（1Cor 3:21-23）	So let no one boast in human leaders, for everything is yours  —whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or things present or things to come  — everything is yours,and you belong to Christ, and Christ belongs to God.
（1Cor 12:18）	But as it is, God has arranged each one of the parts in the body just as he wanted.
（1Cor 12:24-26）	which our respectable parts do not need. Instead, God has put the body together, giving greater honor to the less honorable,so that there would be no division in the body, but that the members would have the same concern for each other.So if one member suffers, all the members suffer with it; if one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it.
（2Cor 2:14）	But thanks be to God, who always leads us in Christ’s triumphal procession and through us spreads the aroma of the knowledge of him in every place.
（Gal 3:26-27）	for through faith you are all sons of God in Christ Jesus.For those of you who were baptized into Christ have been clothed with Christ.
（Gal 3:29）	And if you belong to Christ, then you are Abraham’s seed, heirs according to the promise.
（Eph 2:6）	He also raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavens in Christ Jesus,
（Eph 2:22）	In him you are also being built together for God’s dwelling in the Spirit.
（Eph 3:10）	This is so that God’s multi-faceted wisdom may now be made known through the church to the rulers and authorities in the heavens.
（Eph 3:20-21）	Now to him who is able to do above and beyond all that we ask or think according to the power that works in us —to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus to all generations, forever and ever. Amen.
（Eph 4:11-12）	And he himself gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, some pastors and teachers,equipping the saints for the work of ministry, to build up the body of Christ,
（Col 2:19）	He doesn’t hold on to the head, from whom the whole body, nourished and held together by its ligaments and tendons, grows with growth from God.
（Col 3:3）	For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God.
（1Thess 5:5）	For you are all children of light and children of the day. We do not belong to the night or the darkness.
（Heb 2:11）	For the one who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one Father. That is why Jesus is not ashamed to call them brothers and sisters,
（Heb 11:16）	But they now desire a better place — a heavenly one. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared a city for them.
（1Pet 2:5）	you yourselves, as living stones, a spiritual house, are being built to be a holy priesthood to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.
（1Pet 2:9）	But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his possession, so that you may proclaim the praises of the one who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light.
（1John 1:7）	If we walk in the light as he himself is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin.
（1John 2:1）	My little children, I am writing you these things so that you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father — Jesus Christ the righteous one.
（1John 3:2-3）	Dear friends, we are God’s children now, and what we will be has not yet been revealed. We know that when he appears, we will be like him because we will see him as he is.And everyone who has this hope in him purifies himself just as he is pure.
（Jude 1:1）	Jude, a servant of Jesus Christ and a brother of James: To those who are the called, loved by God the Father and kept for Jesus Christ.
（Rev 7:15）	For this reason they are before the throne of God, and they serve him day and night in his temple. The one seated on the throne will shelter them:
（Rev 7:17）	For the Lamb who is at the center of the throne will shepherd them; he will guide them to springs of the waters of life, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.
（Rev 21:3-4）	Then I heard a loud voice from the throne: Look, God’s dwelling is with humanity, and he will live with them. They will be his peoples, and God himself will be with them and will be their God.He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Death will be no more; grief, crying, and pain will be no more, because the previous things have passed away.
（Rev 22:3-5）	and there will no longer be any curse. The throne of God and of the Lamb will be in the city, and his servants will worship him.They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads.Night will be no more; people will not need the light of a lamp or the light of the sun, because the Lord God will give them light, and they will reign forever and ever.

4.7.{3}	Promises to Shepherds
（Eph 4:8）	For it says: When he ascended on high, he took the captives captive; he gave gifts to people.
（Eph 4:11-13）	And he himself gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, some pastors and teachers,equipping the saints for the work of ministry, to build up the body of Christ,until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of God’s Son, growing into maturity with a stature measured by Christ’s fullness.
（2Sam 23:3-4）	The God of Israel spoke; the Rock of Israel said to me, “The one who rules the people with justice, who rules in the fear of God,is like the morning light when the sun rises on a cloudless morning, the glisten of rain on sprouting grass.”
（Jer 23:4）	I will raise up shepherds over them who will tend them. They will no longer be afraid or discouraged, nor will any be missing.” This is the LORD’s declaration.
（Jer 3:15）	I will give you shepherds who are loyal to me, and they will shepherd you with knowledge and skill.
（Jer 1:9）	Then the LORD reached out his hand, touched my mouth, and told me: I have now filled your mouth with my words.
（Exod 4:12）	Now go! I will help you speak and I will teach you what to say.”
（Isa 51:16）	I have put my words in your mouth, and covered you in the shadow of my hand, in order to plant the heavens, to found the earth, and to say to Zion, “You are my people.”
（Jer 23:28-29）	The prophet who has only a dream should recount the dream, but the one who has my word should speak my word truthfully, for what is straw compared to grain?” — this is the LORD’s declaration.“Is not my word like fire” — this is the LORD’s declaration — “and like a hammer that pulverizes rock?
（Jer 15:19）	Therefore, this is what the LORD says: If you return, I will take you back; you will stand in my presence. And if you speak noble words, rather than worthless ones, you will be my spokesman. It is they who must return to you; you must not return to them.

4.8.{3}	Promises on the Power of God’s Word
（Josh 1:8）	This book of instruction must not depart from your mouth; you are to meditate on it day and night so that you may carefully observe everything written in it. For then you will prosper and succeed in whatever you do.
（Ps 1:2-3）	Instead, his delight is in the LORD’s instruction, and he meditates on it day and night.He is like a tree planted beside flowing streams that bears its fruit in its season and whose leaf does not wither. Whatever he does prospers.
（Prov 6:22-23）	When you walk here and there, they will guide you; when you lie down, they will watch over you; when you wake up, they will talk to you.For a command is a lamp, teaching is a light, and corrective discipline is the way to life.
（Prov 30:5）	Every word of God is pure; he is a shield to those who take refuge in him.
（Isa 55:11）	so my word that comes from my mouth will not return to me empty, but it will accomplish what I please and will prosper in what I send it to do.”
（Mark 13:31）	Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will never pass away.
（Acts 20:32）	“And now I commit you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you an inheritance among all who are sanctified.
（Rom 15:4）	For whatever was written in the past was written for our instruction, so that we may have hope through endurance and through the encouragement from the Scriptures.
（1Tim 4:4-5）	For everything created by God is good, and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving,since it is sanctified by the word of God and by prayer.
（2Tim 3:15-17）	and you know that from infancy you have known the sacred Scriptures, which are able to give you wisdom for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus.All Scripture is inspired by God and is profitable for teaching, for rebuking, for correcting, for training in righteousness,so that the man of God may be complete, equipped for every good work.
（Heb 4:12）	For the word of God is living and effective and sharper than any double-edged sword, penetrating as far as the separation of soul and spirit, joints and marrow. It is able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
（Jas 1:17-18）	Every good and perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, who does not change like shifting shadows.By his own choice, he gave us birth by the word of truth so that we would be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures.
（1Pet 1:23-25）	because you have been born again  — not of perishable seed but of imperishable — through the living and enduring word of God.For All flesh is like grass, and all its glory like a flower of the grass. The grass withers, and the flower falls,but the word of the Lord endures forever. And this word is the gospel that was proclaimed to you.
（2Pet 1:20-21）	Above all, you know this: No prophecy of Scripture comes from the prophet’s own interpretation,because no prophecy ever came by the will of man; instead, men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit.
（1John 2:14）	I have written to you, children, because you have come to know the Father. I have written to you, fathers, because you have come to know the one who is from the beginning. I have written to you, young men, because you are strong, God’s word remains in you, and you have conquered the evil one.
（Rev 1:3）	Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear the words of this prophecy and keep what is written in it, because the time is near.

4.9.{3}	Promises to Send Revival
（Jer 4:1-2）	If you return, Israel — this is the LORD’s declaration — you will return to me, if you remove your abhorrent idols from my presence and do not waver,then you can swear, “As the LORD lives,” in truth, in justice, and in righteousness, then the nations will be blessed by him and will pride themselves in him.
（Ps 19:7）	The instruction of the LORD is perfect, renewing one’s life; the testimony of the LORD is trustworthy, making the inexperienced wise.
（Ps 110:3）	Your people will volunteer on your day of battle. In holy splendor, from the womb of the dawn, the dew of your youth belongs to you.
（Isa 2:2-3）	In the last days the mountain of the LORD’s house will be established at the top of the mountains and will be raised above the hills. All nations will stream to it,and many peoples will come and say, “Come, let us go up to the mountain of the LORD, to the house of the God of Jacob. He will teach us about his ways so that we may walk in his paths.” For instruction will go out of Zion and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.
（Isa 10:20-21）	On that day the remnant of Israel and the survivors of the house of Jacob will no longer depend on the one who struck them, but they will faithfully depend on the LORD, the Holy One of Israel.The remnant will return, the remnant of Jacob, to the Mighty God.
（Isa 27:6）	In days to come, Jacob will take root. Israel will blossom and bloom and fill the whole world with fruit.
（Isa 29:17-19）	Isn’t it true that in just a little while Lebanon will become an orchard, and the orchard will seem like a forest?On that day the deaf will hear the words of a document, and out of a deep darkness the eyes of the blind will see.The humble will have joy after joy in the LORD, and the poor people will rejoice in the Holy One of Israel.
（Isa 29:22）	Therefore, the LORD who redeemed Abraham says this about the house of Jacob: Jacob will no longer be ashamed, and his face will no longer be pale.
（Isa 32:15）	until the Spirit from on high is poured out on us. Then the desert will become an orchard, and the orchard will seem like a forest.
（Isa 33:17）	Your eyes will see the King in his beauty; you will see a vast land.
（Isa 35:1-2）	The wilderness and the dry land will be glad; the desert will rejoice and blossom like a wildflower.It will blossom abundantly and will also rejoice with joy and singing. The glory of Lebanon will be given to it, the splendor of Carmel and Sharon. They will see the glory of the LORD, the splendor of our God.
（Isa 35:6）	Then the lame will leap like a deer, and the tongue of the mute will sing for joy, for water will gush in the wilderness, and streams in the desert;
（Isa 41:18）	I will open rivers on the barren heights, and springs in the middle of the plains. I will turn the desert into a pool and dry land into springs.
（Isa 43:20-21）	Wild animals — jackals and ostriches — will honor me, because I provide water in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert, to give drink to my chosen people.The people I formed for myself will declare my praise.
（Isa 44:3-5）	For I will pour water on the thirsty land and streams on the dry ground; I will pour out my Spirit on your descendants and my blessing on your offspring.They will sprout among the grass like poplars by flowing streams.This one will say, ‘I am the LORD’s’; another will use the name of Jacob; still another will write on his hand, ‘The LORD’s,’ and take on the name of Israel.”
（Isa 51:3）	For the LORD will comfort Zion; he will comfort all her waste places, and he will make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert like the garden of the LORD. Joy and gladness will be found in her, thanksgiving and melodious song.
（Isa 54:13）	Then all your children will be taught by the LORD, their prosperity will be great,
（Jer 3:12）	Go, proclaim these words to the north, and say, ‘Return, unfaithful Israel. This is the LORD’s declaration. I will not look on you with anger, for I am unfailing in my love. This is the LORD’s declaration. I will not be angry forever.
（Jer 24:7）	I will give them a heart to know me, that I am the LORD. They will be my people, and I will be their God because they will return to me with all their heart.
（Jer 30:17）	But I will bring you health and will heal you of your wounds — this is the LORD’s declaration — for they call you Outcast, Zion whom no one cares about.
（Jer 30:19）	Thanksgiving will come out of them, a sound of rejoicing. I will multiply them, and they will not decrease; I will honor them, and they will not be insignificant.
（Jer 31:9）	They will come weeping, but I will bring them back with consolation. I will lead them to wadis filled with water, by a smooth way where they will not stumble, for I am Israel’s Father, and Ephraim is my firstborn.
（Hos 6:1-3）	Come, let us return to the LORD. For he has torn us, and he will heal us; he has wounded us, and he will bind up our wounds.He will revive us after two days, and on the third day he will raise us up so we can live in his presence.Let us strive to know the LORD. His appearance is as sure as the dawn. He will come to us like the rain, like the spring showers that water the land.
（Joel 2:25）	I will repay you for the years that the swarming locust ate, the young locust, the destroying locust, and the devouring locust — my great army that I sent against you.

4.10.{3}	Promises of The Holy Spirit’s Powerful Ministry
（Isa 32:15）	until the Spirit from on high is poured out on us. Then the desert will become an orchard, and the orchard will seem like a forest.
（Ezek 37:14）	I will put my Spirit in you, and you will live, and I will settle you in your own land. Then you will know that I am the LORD. I have spoken, and I will do it. This is the declaration of the LORD.’”
（1Thess 1:5）	because our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power, in the Holy Spirit, and with full assurance. You know how we lived among you for your benefit,
（Ezek 39:29）	I will no longer hide my face from them, for I will pour out my Spirit on the house of Israel.” This is the declaration of the Lord GOD.
（Joel 2:28-29）	After this I will pour out my Spirit on all humanity; then your sons and your daughters will prophesy, your old men will have dreams, and your young men will see visions.I will even pour out my Spirit on the male and female slaves in those days.
（Matt 3:11）	“I baptize you with water for repentance, but the one who is coming after me is more powerful than I. I am not worthy to remove his sandals. He himself will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire.
（Luke 11:13）	If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him?”
（Luke 24:49）	And look, I am sending you what my Father promised. As for you, stay in the city until you are empowered from on high.”
（John 7:37-39）	On the last and most important day of the festival, Jesus stood up and cried out, “If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink.The one who believes in me, as the Scripture has said, will have streams of living water flow from deep within him.”He said this about the Spirit. Those who believed in Jesus were going to receive the Spirit, for the Spirit had not yet been given because Jesus had not yet been glorified.
（John 14:12）	“Truly I tell you, the one who believes in me will also do the works that I do. And he will do even greater works than these, because I am going to the Father.
（John 14:16-17）	And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Counselor to be with you forever.He is the Spirit of truth. The world is unable to receive him because it doesn’t see him or know him. But you do know him, because he remains with you and will be in you.
（John 14:26-27）	But the Counselor, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will teach you all things and remind you of everything I have told you.“Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. I do not give to you as the world gives. Don’t let your heart be troubled or fearful.
（John 16:13-14）	When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth. For he will not speak on his own, but he will speak whatever he hears. He will also declare to you what is to come.He will glorify me, because he will take from what is mine and declare it to you.
（John 20:22）	After saying this, he breathed on them and said, “Receive the Holy Spirit.
（Acts 1:8）	But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come on you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth.”
（Rom 5:5）	This hope will not disappoint us, because God’s love has been poured out in our hearts through the Holy Spirit who was given to us.
（Rom 7:6）	But now we have been released from the law, since we have died to what held us, so that we may serve in the newness of the Spirit and not in the old letter of the law.
（Rom 8:13）	because if you live according to the flesh, you are going to die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live.
（Rom 8:14-15）	For all those led by God’s Spirit are God’s sons.For you did not receive a spirit of slavery to fall back into fear. Instead, you received the Spirit of adoption, by whom we cry out, “Abba, Father!”
（Gal 4:6）	And because you are sons, God sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, “Abba, Father!”
（Rom 8:16）	The Spirit himself testifies together with our spirit that we are God’s children,
（1Cor 2:9-10）	But as it is written, What no eye has seen, no ear has heard, and no human heart has conceived — God has prepared these things for those who love him.Now God has revealed these things to us by the Spirit, since the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God.
（1Cor 2:12）	Now we have not received the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who comes from God, so that we may understand what has been freely given to us by God.
（1Cor 12:11）	One and the same Spirit is active in all these, distributing to each person as he wills.
（2Cor 3:6）	He has made us competent to be ministers of a new covenant, not of the letter, but of the Spirit. For the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life.
（2Cor 3:17-18）	Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom.We all, with unveiled faces, are looking as in a mirror at the glory of the Lord and are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory; this is from the Lord who is the Spirit.
（Gal 5:16）	I say then, walk by the Spirit and you will certainly not carry out the desire of the flesh.
（Gal 5:18）	But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law.
（Gal 5:22-23）	But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness,gentleness, and self-control. The law is not against such things.
（Gal 6:8）	because the one who sows to his flesh will reap destruction from the flesh, but the one who sows to the Spirit will reap eternal life from the Spirit.
（1John 2:20）	But you have an anointing from the Holy One, and all of you know the truth.
（1John 2:27）	As for you, the anointing you received from him remains in you, and you don’t need anyone to teach you. Instead, his anointing teaches you about all things and is true and is not a lie; just as it has taught you, remain in him.

4.11.{3}	Promises that God Will Make Us His Possession
（Lev 20:26）	You are to be holy to me because I, the LORD, am holy, and I have set you apart from the nations to be mine.
（Lev 26:11-12）	I will place my residence among you, and I will not reject you.I will walk among you and be your God, and you will be my people.
（Deut 7:6）	For you are a holy people belonging to the LORD your God. The LORD your God has chosen you to be his own possession out of all the peoples on the face of the earth.
（1Sam 12:22）	The LORD will not abandon his people, because of his great name and because he has determined to make you his own people.
（1Chr 17:21-22）	And who is like your people Israel? God, you came to one nation on earth to redeem a people for yourself, to make a name for yourself through great and awesome works by driving out nations before your people you redeemed from Egypt.You made your people Israel your own people forever, and you, LORD, have become their God.
（Num 18:20）	The LORD told Aaron, “You will not have an inheritance in their land; there will be no portion among them for you. I am your portion and your inheritance among the Israelites.
（Titus 2:13-14）	while we wait for the blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ.He gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to cleanse for himself a people for his own possession, eager to do good works.

4.12.{3}.1	The meaning of the promise “God with us”:
（Gen 39:2-3）	The LORD was with Joseph, and he became a successful man, serving in the household of his Egyptian master.When his master saw that the LORD was with him and that the LORD made everything he did successful,
（Gen 39:21）	But the LORD was with Joseph and extended kindness to him. He granted him favor with the prison warden.
（Gen 39:23）	The warden did not bother with anything under Joseph’s authority, because the LORD was with him, and the LORD made everything that he did successful.
（Josh 1:5）	No one will be able to stand against you as long as you live. I will be with you, just as I was with Moses. I will not leave you or abandon you.
（Josh 6:27）	And the LORD was with Joshua, and his fame spread throughout the land.
（Judg 6:12）	Then the angel of the LORD appeared to him and said: “The LORD is with you, valiant warrior.”
（1Sam 3:19）	Samuel grew, and the LORD was with him, and he fulfilled everything Samuel prophesied.
（1Sam 18:12）	Saul was afraid of David, because the LORD was with David but had left Saul.
（2Sam 7:3）	So Nathan told the king, “Go and do all that is on your mind, for the LORD is with you.”
（2Kgs 18:7）	The LORD was with him, and wherever he went he prospered. He rebelled against the king of Assyria and did not serve him.
（1Chr 11:9）	David steadily grew more powerful, and the LORD of Armies was with him.
（1Kgs 8:57-58）	May the LORD our God be with us as he was with our ancestors. May he not abandon us or leave usso that he causes us to be devoted to him, to walk in all his ways, and to keep his commands, statutes, and ordinances, which he commanded our ancestors.
（1Chr 22:11）	“Now, my son, may the LORD be with you, and may you succeed in building the house of the LORD your God, as he said about you.
（1Chr 28:20）	Then David said to his son Solomon, “Be strong and courageous, and do the work. Don’t be afraid or discouraged, for the LORD God, my God, is with you. He won’t leave you or abandon you until all the work for the service of the LORD’s house is finished.
（Hag 2:4）	Even so, be strong, Zerubbabel — this is the LORD’s declaration. Be strong, Joshua son of Jehozadak, high priest. Be strong, all you people of the land — this is the LORD’s declaration. Work! For I am with you  — the declaration of the LORD of Armies.
（Acts 7:9-10）	“The patriarchs became jealous of Joseph and sold him into Egypt, but God was with himand rescued him out of all his troubles. He gave him favor and wisdom in the sight of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, who appointed him ruler over Egypt and over his whole household.
（Acts 10:38）	how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power, and how he went about doing good and healing all who were under the tyranny of the devil, because God was with him.

4.12.{3}.2	Promises that God Will Be “With Us”
（Gen 28:15）	Look, I am with you and will watch over you wherever you go. I will bring you back to this land, for I will not leave you until I have done what I have promised you.”
（Exod 4:12）	Now go! I will help you speak and I will teach you what to say.”
（Josh 1:9）	Haven’t I commanded you: be strong and courageous? Do not be afraid or discouraged, for the LORD your God is with you wherever you go.”
（2Chr 15:2）	So he went out to meet Asa and said to him, “Asa and all Judah and Benjamin, hear me. The LORD is with you when you are with him. If you seek him, he will be found by you, but if you abandon him, he will abandon you.
（Ps 14:5）	Then they will be filled with dread, for God is with those who are righteous.
（Ps 46:7）	The LORD of Armies is with us; the God of Jacob is our stronghold. Selah
（Ps 91:1-2）	The one who lives under the protection of the Most High dwells in the shadow of the Almighty.I will say concerning the LORD, who is my refuge and my fortress, my God in whom I trust:
（Ps 139:8-10）	If I go up to heaven, you are there; if I make my bed in Sheol, you are there.If I live at the eastern horizon or settle at the western limits,even there your hand will lead me; your right hand will hold on to me.
（Isa 41:10）	Do not fear, for I am with you; do not be afraid, for I am your God. I will strengthen you; I will help you; I will hold on to you with my righteous right hand.
（Isa 43:2）	I will be with you when you pass through the waters, and when you pass through the rivers, they will not overwhelm you. You will not be scorched when you walk through the fire, and the flame will not burn you.
（Isa 43:4-7）	Because you are precious in my sight and honored, and I love you, I will give people in exchange for you and nations instead of your life.Do not fear, for I am with you; I will bring your descendants from the east, and gather you from the west.I will say to the north, ‘Give them up!’ and to the south, ‘Do not hold them back!’ Bring my sons from far away, and my daughters from the ends of the earth  —everyone who bears my name and is created for my glory. I have formed them; indeed, I have made them.”
（Jer 1:8）	Do not be afraid of anyone, for I will be with you to rescue you. This is the LORD’s declaration.
（Jer 1:19）	They will fight against you but never prevail over you, since I am with you to rescue you.” This is the LORD’s declaration.
（Jer 42:11-12）	Don’t be afraid of the king of Babylon whom you now fear; don’t be afraid of him’ — this is the LORD’s declaration — ‘because I am with you to save you and rescue you from him.I will grant you compassion, and he will have compassion on you and allow you to return to your own soil.’
（Matt 28:19-20）	Go, therefore, and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,teaching them to observe everything I have commanded you. And remember, I am with you always, to the end of the age.”
（Acts 18:9-10）	The Lord said to Paul in a night vision, “Don’t be afraid, but keep on speaking and don’t be silent.For I am with you, and no one will lay a hand on you to hurt you, because I have many people in this city.”
（Phil 4:9）	Do what you have learned and received and heard from me, and seen in me, and the God of peace will be with you.

4.13.{3}	Promises that God Will Draw Near
（Exod 29:46）	And they will know that I am the LORD their God, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, so that I might dwell among them. I am the LORD their God.
（Exod 33:14）	And he replied, “My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest.”
（Deut 4:7）	For what great nation is there that has a god near to it as the LORD our God is to us whenever we call to him?
（1Kgs 6:13）	I will dwell among the Israelites and not abandon my people Israel.”
（Ps 91:1）	The one who lives under the protection of the Most High dwells in the shadow of the Almighty.
（Isa 57:15）	For the High and Exalted One, who lives forever, whose name is holy, says this: “I live in a high and holy place, and with the oppressed and lowly of spirit, to revive the spirit of the lowly and revive the heart of the oppressed.
（Jer 30:21）	Jacob’s leader will be one of them; his ruler will issue from him. I will invite him to me, and he will approach me, for who would otherwise risk his life to approach me? This is the LORD’s declaration.
（Jas 4:8）	Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded.

4.14.{3}	Promises that God Will Manifest His Favor
（Exod 20:24）	“Make an earthen altar for me, and sacrifice on it your burnt offerings and fellowship offerings, your flocks and herds. I will come to you and bless you in every place where I cause my name to be remembered.
（Job 8:7）	Then, even if your beginnings were modest, your final days will be full of prosperity.
（Job 23:10）	Yet he knows the way I have taken; when he has tested me, I will emerge as pure gold.
（Job 36:7）	He does not withdraw his gaze from the righteous, but he seats them forever with enthroned kings, and they are exalted.
（Ps 1:3）	He is like a tree planted beside flowing streams that bears its fruit in its season and whose leaf does not wither. Whatever he does prospers.
（Ps 36:7-9）	How priceless your faithful love is, God! People take refuge in the shadow of your wings.They are filled from the abundance of your house. You let them drink from your refreshing stream.For the wellspring of life is with you. By means of your light we see light.
（Ps 37:34）	Wait for the LORD and keep his way, and he will exalt you to inherit the land. You will watch when the wicked are destroyed.
（Ps 71:21）	You will increase my honor and comfort me once again.
（Ps 102:13）	You will rise up and have compassion on Zion, for it is time to show favor to her — the appointed time has come.
（Prov 4:18）	The path of the righteous is like the light of dawn, shining brighter and brighter until midday.
（Isa 51:16）	I have put my words in your mouth, and covered you in the shadow of my hand, in order to plant the heavens, to found the earth, and to say to Zion, “You are my people.”
（Isa 60:10）	Foreigners will rebuild your walls, and their kings will serve you. Although I struck you in my wrath, yet I will show mercy to you with my favor.
（Isa 65:16）	Whoever asks for a blessing in the land will ask for a blessing by the God of truth, and whoever swears in the land will swear by the God of truth. For the former troubles will be forgotten and hidden from my sight.
（Isa 66:2）	My hand made all these things, and so they all came into being. This is the LORD’s declaration. I will look favorably on this kind of person: one who is humble, submissive in spirit, and trembles at my word.
（John 15:4-5）	Remain in me, and I in you. Just as a branch is unable to produce fruit by itself unless it remains on the vine, neither can you unless you remain in me.I am the vine; you are the branches. The one who remains in me and I in him produces much fruit, because you can do nothing without me.
（Col 1:27）	God wanted to make known among the Gentiles the glorious wealth of this mystery, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory.

4.15.{3}	Promises to Believers Struggling with Sin
（Lev 26:13）	I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, so that you would no longer be their slaves. I broke the bars of your yoke and enabled you to live in freedom.
（2Chr 30:9）	for when you return to the LORD, your brothers and your sons will receive mercy in the presence of their captors and will return to this land. For the LORD your God is gracious and merciful; he will not turn his face away from you if you return to him.”
（Ps 18:16-18）	He reached down from on high and took hold of me; he pulled me out of deep water.He rescued me from my powerful enemy and from those who hated me, for they were too strong for me.They confronted me in the day of my calamity, but the LORD was my support.
（Ps 31:21）	Blessed be the LORD, for he has wondrously shown his faithful love to me in a city under siege.
（Ps 69:33）	For the LORD listens to the needy and does not despise his own who are prisoners.
（Isa 57:17-19）	Because of his sinful greed I was angry, so I struck him; I was angry and hid; but he went on turning back to the desires of his heart.I have seen his ways, but I will heal him; I will lead him and restore comfort to him and his mourners,creating words of praise.” The LORD says, “Peace, peace to the one who is far or near, and I will heal him.
（Jer 3:12）	Go, proclaim these words to the north, and say, ‘Return, unfaithful Israel. This is the LORD’s declaration. I will not look on you with anger, for I am unfailing in my love. This is the LORD’s declaration. I will not be angry forever.
（Jer 3:22）	Return, you faithless children. I will heal your unfaithfulness. “Here we are, coming to you, for you are the LORD our God.
（Jer 31:9）	They will come weeping, but I will bring them back with consolation. I will lead them to wadis filled with water, by a smooth way where they will not stumble, for I am Israel’s Father, and Ephraim is my firstborn.
（Ezek 16:59-60）	“‘For this is what the Lord GOD says: I will deal with you according to what you have done, since you have despised the oath by breaking the covenant.But I will remember the covenant I made with you in the days of your youth, and I will establish a permanent covenant with you.
（Ezek 37:23）	They will not defile themselves anymore with their idols, their abhorrent things, and all their transgressions. I will save them from all their apostasies by which they sinned, and I will cleanse them. Then they will be my people, and I will be their God.
（Hos 14:4）	I will heal their apostasy; I will freely love them, for my anger will have turned from him.
（Zech 10:6-7）	I will strengthen the house of Judah and deliver the house of Joseph. I will restore them because I have compassion on them, and they will be as though I had never rejected them. For I am the LORD their God, and I will answer them.Ephraim will be like a warrior, and their hearts will be glad as if with wine. Their children will see it and be glad; their hearts will rejoice in the LORD.
（Ezek 22:15）	I will disperse you among the nations and scatter you among the countries; I will purge your uncleanness.
（Ezek 36:25-27）	I will also sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all your impurities and all your idols.I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you; I will remove your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh.I will place my Spirit within you and cause you to follow my statutes and carefully observe my ordinances.
（Jas 5:19-20）	My brothers and sisters, if any among you strays from the truth, and someone turns him back,let that person know that whoever turns a sinner from the error of his way will save his soul from death and cover a multitude of sins.

4.16.{3}	Promises to Give His People Strength
（2Chr 16:9）	For the eyes of the LORD roam throughout the earth to show himself strong for those who are wholeheartedly devoted to him. You have been foolish in this matter. Therefore, you will have wars from now on.”
（Ps 55:22）	Cast your burden on the LORD, and he will sustain you; he will never allow the righteous to be shaken.
（Ps 68:35）	God, you are awe-inspiring in your sanctuaries. The God of Israel gives power and strength to his people. Blessed be God!
（Ps 80:18）	Then we will not turn away from you; revive us, and we will call on your name.
（Ps 118:14）	The LORD is my strength and my song; he has become my salvation.
（Ps 138:3）	On the day I called, you answered me; you increased strength within me.
（Isa 28:5-6）	On that day the LORD of Armies will become a crown of beauty and a diadem of splendor to the remnant of his people,a spirit of justice to the one who sits in judgment, and strength to those who repel attacks at the city gate.
（Jer 31:25）	for I satisfy the thirsty person and feed all those who are weak.”
（Zech 4:6）	So he answered me, “This is the word of the LORD to Zerubbabel: ‘Not by strength or by might, but by my Spirit,’ says the LORD of Armies.
（Zech 10:12）	I will strengthen them in the LORD, and they will march in his name — this is the LORD’s declaration.
（Rom 8:37）	No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us.
（Rom 14:4）	Who are you to judge another’s household servant? Before his own Lord he stands or falls. And he will stand, because the Lord is able to make him stand.
（Rom 16:25）	Now to him who is able to strengthen you according to my gospel and the proclamation about Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery kept silent for long ages
（2Cor 4:7）	Now we have this treasure in clay jars, so that this extraordinary power may be from God and not from us.
（2Cor 12:9）	But he said to me, “My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is perfected in weakness.” Therefore, I will most gladly boast all the more about my weaknesses, so that Christ’s power may reside in me.
（Phil 2:12-13）	Therefore, my dear friends, just as you have always obeyed, so now, not only in my presence but even more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling.For it is God who is working in you both to will and to work according to his good purpose.
（Col 1:29）	I labor for this, striving with his strength that works powerfully in me.
（Exod 31:3）	I have filled him with God’s Spirit, with wisdom, understanding, and ability in every craft
（2Tim 4:17）	But the Lord stood with me and strengthened me, so that I might fully preach the word and all the Gentiles might hear it. So I was rescued from the lion’s mouth.
（Jude 1:24）	Now to him who is able to protect you from stumbling and to make you stand in the presence of his glory, without blemish and with great joy,
（Deut 32:36）	The LORD will indeed vindicate his people and have compassion on his servants when he sees that their strength is gone and no one is left — slave or free.
（1Sam 14:6）	Jonathan said to the attendant who carried his weapons, “Come on, let’s cross over to the garrison of these uncircumcised men. Perhaps the LORD will help us. Nothing can keep the LORD from saving, whether by many or by few.”
（2Sam 22:18-19）	He rescued me from my powerful enemy and from those who hated me, for they were too strong for me.They confronted me in the day of my calamity, but the LORD was my support.
（Ps 10:14）	But you yourself have seen trouble and grief, observing it in order to take the matter into your hands. The helpless one entrusts himself to you; you are a helper of the fatherless.
（Ps 103:14）	For he knows what we are made of, remembering that we are dust.
（Isa 40:28-31）	Do you not know? Have you not heard? The LORD is the everlasting God, the Creator of the whole earth. He never becomes faint or weary; there is no limit to his understanding.He gives strength to the faint and strengthens the powerless.Youths may become faint and weary, and young men stumble and fall,but those who trust in the LORD will renew their strength; they will soar on wings like eagles; they will run and not become weary, they will walk and not faint.
（Ps 111:6）	He has shown his people the power of his works by giving them the inheritance of the nations.

4.17.{3}	Promises to Give Light in the Darkness
（Job 12:22）	He reveals mysteries from the darkness and brings the deepest darkness into the light.
（Ps 18:28）	LORD, you light my lamp; my God illuminates my darkness.
（Ps 107:14）	He brought them out of darkness and gloom and broke their chains apart.
（Ps 112:4）	Light shines in the darkness for the upright. He is gracious, compassionate, and righteous.
（Isa 58:10）	and if you offer yourself to the hungry, and satisfy the afflicted one, then your light will shine in the darkness, and your night will be like noonday.
（Luke 1:78-79）	Because of our God’s merciful compassion, the dawn from on high will visit usto shine on those who live in darkness and the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace.
（John 12:46）	I have come as light into the world, so that everyone who believes in me would not remain in darkness.
（Job 8:21）	He will yet fill your mouth with laughter and your lips with a shout of joy.
（Job 35:10）	But no one asks, “Where is God my Maker, who provides us with songs in the night,
（Ps 16:10-11）	For you will not abandon me to Sheol; you will not allow your faithful one to see decay.You reveal the path of life to me; in your presence is abundant joy; at your right hand are eternal pleasures.
（Ps 19:8）	The precepts of the LORD are right, making the heart glad; the command of the LORD is radiant, making the eyes light up.
（Ps 30:5）	For his anger lasts only a moment, but his favor, a lifetime. Weeping may stay overnight, but there is joy in the morning.
（Ps 30:11）	You turned my lament into dancing; you removed my sackcloth and clothed me with gladness,
（Ps 40:3）	He put a new song in my mouth, a hymn of praise to our God. Many will see and fear, and they will trust in the LORD.
（Ps 65:8）	Those who live far away are awed by your signs; you make east and west shout for joy.
（Ps 97:11）	Light dawns for the righteous, gladness for the upright in heart.
（Isa 61:7）	In place of your shame, you will have a double portion; in place of disgrace, they will rejoice over their share. So they will possess double in their land, and eternal joy will be theirs.
（Jer 31:12）	They will come and shout for joy on the heights of Zion; they will be radiant with joy because of the LORD’s goodness, because of the grain, the new wine, the fresh oil, and because of the young of the flocks and herds. Their life will be like an irrigated garden, and they will no longer grow weak from hunger.
（Jer 31:13-14）	Then the young women will rejoice with dancing, while young and old men rejoice together. I will turn their mourning into joy, give them consolation, and bring happiness out of grief.I will refresh the priests with an abundance, and my people will be satisfied with my goodness. This is the LORD’s declaration.
（John 15:10-11）	If you keep my commands you will remain in my love, just as I have kept my Father’s commands and remain in his love.“I have told you these things so that my joy may be in you and your joy may be complete.

4.18.{3}	Promises to Those Who are Afflicted
（Job 36:15-16）	God rescues the afflicted by their affliction; he instructs them by their torment.Indeed, he lured you from the jaws of distress to a spacious and unconfined place. Your table was spread with choice food.
（Ps 9:12）	For the one who seeks an accounting for bloodshed remembers them; he does not forget the cry of the oppressed.
（Ps 34:18-19）	The LORD is near the brokenhearted; he saves those crushed in spirit.One who is righteous has many adversities, but the LORD rescues him from them all.
（Isa 14:32）	What answer will be given to the messengers from that nation? The LORD has founded Zion, and his oppressed people find refuge in her.
（Isa 30:26）	The moonlight will be as bright as the sunlight, and the sunlight will be seven times brighter  — like the light of seven days — on the day that the LORD bandages his people’s injuries and heals the wounds he inflicted.
（Isa 30:29）	Your singing will be like that on the night of a holy festival, and your heart will rejoice like one who walks to the music of a flute, going up to the mountain of the LORD, to the Rock of Israel.
（Lam 3:31-33）	For the Lord will not reject us forever.Even if he causes suffering, he will show compassion according to the abundance of his faithful love.For he does not enjoy bringing affliction or suffering on mankind.
（Nah 1:12）	This is what the LORD says: Though they are strong and numerous, they will still be mowed down, and he will pass away. Though I have punished you, I will punish you no longer.
（John 15:2）	Every branch in me that does not produce fruit he removes, and he prunes every branch that produces fruit so that it will produce more fruit.
（2Cor 4:16-17）	Therefore we do not give up. Even though our outer person is being destroyed, our inner person is being renewed day by day.For our momentary light affliction is producing for us an absolutely incomparable eternal weight of glory.
（Heb 12:11）	No discipline seems enjoyable at the time, but painful. Later on, however, it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it.
（Jas 1:12）	Blessed is the one who endures trials, because when he has stood the test he will receive the crown of life that God has promised to those who love him.
（1Pet 5:10）	The God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, establish, strengthen, and support you after you have suffered a little while.
（Ps 37:39）	The salvation of the righteous is from the LORD, their refuge in a time of distress.
（Ps 46:1-2）	For the choir director. A song of the sons of Korah. According to . [1] God is our refuge and strength, a helper who is always found in times of trouble.Therefore we will not be afraid, though the earth trembles and the mountains topple into the depths of the seas,
（Ps 66:12）	You let men ride over our heads; we went through fire and water, but you brought us out to abundance.
（John 16:33）	I have told you these things so that in me you may have peace. You will have suffering in this world. Be courageous! I have conquered the world.”
（Ps 84:5-7）	Happy are the people whose strength is in you, whose hearts are set on pilgrimage.As they pass through the Valley of Baca, they make it a source of springwater; even the autumn rain will cover it with blessings.They go from strength to strength; each appears before God in Zion.
（2Cor 1:10）	He has delivered us from such a terrible death, and he will deliver us. We have put our hope in him that he will deliver us again

4.19.{3}	Promises to Those Who are Anxious and Afraid
（Gen 15:1）	After these events, the word of the LORD came to Abram in a vision: Do not be afraid, Abram. I am your shield; your reward will be very great.
（2Kgs 6:16）	Elisha said, “Don’t be afraid, for those who are with us outnumber those who are with them.”
（Isa 25:7-8）	On this mountain he will destroy the burial shroud, the shroud over all the peoples, the sheet covering all the nations;he will destroy death forever. The Lord GOD will wipe away the tears from every face and remove his people’s disgrace from the whole earth, for the LORD has spoken.
（Jer 46:27-28）	But you, my servant Jacob, do not be afraid, and do not be discouraged, Israel, for without fail I will save you from far away, and your descendants from the land of their captivity! Jacob will return and have calm and quiet with no one to frighten him.And you, my servant Jacob, do not be afraid — this is the LORD’s declaration — for I will be with you. I will bring destruction on all the nations where I have banished you, but I will not bring destruction on you. I will discipline you with justice, and I will by no means leave you unpunished.
（Lam 3:57）	You came near whenever I called you; you said, “Do not be afraid.”
（Zech 8:13）	As you have been a curse among the nations, house of Judah and house of Israel, so I will save you, and you will be a blessing. Don’t be afraid; let your hands be strong.”
（Luke 1:73-74）	the oath that he swore to our father Abraham. He has given us the privilege,since we have been rescued from the hand of our enemies, to serve him without fear
（1John 4:18-19）	There is no fear in love; instead, perfect love drives out fear, because fear involves punishment. So the one who fears is not complete in love.We love because he first loved us.
（Lev 26:3）	“If you follow my statutes and faithfully observe my commands,
（Lev 26:5-6）	Your threshing will continue until grape harvest, and the grape harvest will continue until sowing time; you will have plenty of food to eat and live securely in your land.I will give peace to the land, and you will lie down with nothing to frighten you. I will remove dangerous animals from the land, and no sword will pass through your land.
（Ps 119:165）	Abundant peace belongs to those who love your instruction; nothing makes them stumble.
（Isa 26:3）	You will keep the mind that is dependent on you in perfect peace, for it is trusting in you.
（Isa 32:17）	The result of righteousness will be peace; the effect of righteousness will be quiet confidence forever.
（Isa 60:17）	I will bring gold instead of bronze; I will bring silver instead of iron, bronze instead of wood, and iron instead of stones. I will appoint peace as your government and righteousness as your overseers.

4.20.{3}	Promises Regarding Wisdom
（Prov 2:1-7）	My son, if you accept my words and store up my commands within you,listening closely to wisdom and directing your heart to understanding;furthermore, if you call out to insight and lift your voice to understanding,if you seek it like silver and search for it like hidden treasure,then you will understand the fear of the LORD and discover the knowledge of God.For the LORD gives wisdom; from his mouth come knowledge and understanding.He stores up success for the upright; He is a shield for those who live with integrity
（Prov 3:16-18）	Long life is in her right hand; in her left, riches and honor.Her ways are pleasant, and all her paths, peaceful.She is a tree of life to those who embrace her, and those who hold on to her are happy.
（Prov 4:8-9）	Cherish her, and she will exalt you; if you embrace her, she will honor you.She will place a garland of favor on your head; she will give you a crown of beauty.”
（Prov 8:15-17）	It is by me that kings reign and rulers enact just law;by me, princes lead, as do nobles and all righteous judges.I love those who love me, and those who search for me find me.
（Prov 8:34-35）	Anyone who listens to me is happy, watching at my doors every day, waiting by the posts of my doorway.For the one who finds me finds life and obtains favor from the LORD,
（Prov 9:10-11）	“The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the Holy One is understanding.For by me your days will be many, and years will be added to your life.
（Prov 24:3-4）	A house is built by wisdom, and it is established by understanding;by knowledge the rooms are filled with every precious and beautiful treasure.
（Prov 24:5-6）	A wise warrior is better than a strong one, and a man of knowledge than one of strength;for you should wage war with sound guidance — victory comes with many counselors.
（Eccl 7:12）	because wisdom is protection as silver is protection; but the advantage of knowledge is that wisdom preserves the life of its owner.
（Isa 50:4）	The Lord GOD has given me the tongue of those who are instructed to know how to sustain the weary with a word. He awakens me each morning; he awakens my ear to listen like those being instructed.
（Jer 3:15）	I will give you shepherds who are loyal to me, and they will shepherd you with knowledge and skill.
（Matt 10:19-20）	But when they hand you over, don’t worry about how or what you are to speak. For you will be given what to say at that hour,because it isn’t you speaking, but the Spirit of your Father is speaking through you.
（Luke 21:15）	for I will give you such words and a wisdom that none of your adversaries will be able to resist or contradict.
（Col 2:3）	In him are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.
（Jas 1:5）	Now if any of you lacks wisdom, he should ask God — who gives to all generously and ungrudgingly — and it will be given to him.

4.21.{3}	Promises to Give Guidance
（Exod 15:13）	With your faithful love, you will lead the people you have redeemed; you will guide them to your holy dwelling with your strength.
（Deut 1:33）	who went before you on the journey to seek out a place for you to camp. He went in the fire by night and in the cloud by day to guide you on the road you were to travel.
（Ps 32:8）	I will instruct you and show you the way to go; with my eye on you, I will give counsel.
（Ps 48:14）	“This God, our God forever and ever — he will always lead us.”
（Prov 3:5-6）	Trust in the LORD with all your heart, and do not rely on your own understanding;in all your ways know him, and he will make your paths straight.
（Prov 16:3）	Commit your activities to the LORD, and your plans will be established.
（Prov 16:9）	A person’s heart plans his way, but the LORD determines his steps.
（Isa 42:16）	I will lead the blind by a way they did not know; I will guide them on paths they have not known. I will turn darkness to light in front of them and rough places into level ground. This is what I will do for them, and I will not abandon them.
（Isa 48:17）	This is what the LORD, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel says: I am the LORD your God, who teaches you for your benefit, who leads you in the way you should go.

4.22.{3}	Promises to Give Needed Provision
（Deut 2:7）	For the LORD your God has blessed you in all the work of your hands. He has watched over your journey through this immense wilderness. The LORD your God has been with you this past forty years, and you have lacked nothing.’
（1Kgs 17:14）	for this is what the LORD God of Israel says, ‘The flour jar will not become empty and the oil jug will not run dry until the day the LORD sends rain on the surface of the land.’”
（2Kgs 3:16-18）	Then he said, “This is what the LORD says: ‘Dig ditch after ditch in this wadi.’For the LORD says, ‘You will not see wind or rain, but the wadi will be filled with water, and you will drink — you and your cattle and your animals.’This is easy in the LORD’s sight. He will also hand Moab over to you.
（Ps 23:1-3）	A psalm of David. [1] The LORD is my shepherd; I have what I need.He lets me lie down in green pastures; he leads me beside quiet waters.He renews my life; he leads me along the right paths for his name’s sake.
（Ps 81:10）	I am the LORD  your God, who brought you up from the land of Egypt. Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it.
（Isa 33:15-16）	The one who lives righteously and speaks rightly, who refuses profit from extortion, whose hand never takes a bribe, who stops his ears from listening to murderous plots and shuts his eyes against evil schemes  —he will dwell on the heights; his refuge will be the rocky fortresses, his food provided, his water assured.
（Ps 104:27-28）	All of them wait for you to give them their food at the right time.When you give it to them, they gather it; when you open your hand, they are satisfied with good things.
（Matt 6:33）	But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be provided for you.
（Luke 12:32）	Don’t be afraid, little flock, because your Father delights to give you the kingdom.
（Phil 4:19）	And my God will supply all your needs according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.

4.23.{3}	Promises to Give Needed Protection
（Deut 33:12）	He said about Benjamin: The LORD’s beloved rests securely on him. He shields him all day long, and he rests on his shoulders.
（Job 11:18-19）	You will be confident, because there is hope. You will look carefully about and lie down in safety.You will lie down with no one to frighten you, and many will seek your favor.
（Ps 3:5）	I lie down and sleep; I wake again because the LORD sustains me.
（Ps 4:8）	I will both lie down and sleep in peace, for you alone, LORD, make me live in safety.
（Ps 9:9）	The LORD is a refuge for the persecuted, a refuge in times of trouble.
（Ps 27:5）	For he will conceal me in his shelter in the day of adversity; he will hide me under the cover of his tent; he will set me high on a rock.
（Ps 54:4）	God is my helper; the Lord is the sustainer of my life.
（Ps 75:3）	When the earth and all its inhabitants shake, I am the one who steadies its pillars. Selah
（Ps 91:14）	Because he has his heart set on me, I will deliver him; I will protect him because he knows my name.
（Ps 91:9-11）	Because you have made the LORD  — my refuge, the Most High — your dwelling place,no harm will come to you; no plague will come near your tent.For he will give his angels orders concerning you, to protect you in all your ways.
（Ps 121:7-8）	The LORD will protect you from all harm; he will protect your life.The LORD will protect your coming and going both now and forever.
（Ps 125:2）	The mountains surround Jerusalem and the LORD surrounds his people, both now and forever.
（Prov 18:10）	The name of the LORD is a strong tower; the righteous run to it and are protected.
（Isa 46:3-4）	“Listen to me, house of Jacob, all the remnant of the house of Israel, who have been sustained from the womb, carried along since birth.I will be the same until your old age, and I will bear you up when you turn gray. I have made you, and I will carry you; I will bear and rescue you.

4.24.{3}	Promises that God is Fighting for His People
（Exod 14:14）	The LORD will fight for you, and you must be quiet.”
（Deut 1:30-31）	The LORD your God who goes before you will fight for you, just as you saw him do for you in Egypt.And you saw in the wilderness how the LORD your God carried you as a man carries his son all along the way you traveled until you reached this place.
（Deut 20:1）	“When you go out to war against your enemies and see horses, chariots, and an army larger than yours, do not be afraid of them, for the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, is with you.
（Deut 20:4）	For the LORD your God is the one who goes with you to fight for you against your enemies to give you victory.’
（Josh 10:8）	The LORD said to Joshua, “Do not be afraid of them, for I have handed them over to you. Not one of them will be able to stand against you.”
（Josh 10:25）	Joshua said to them, “Do not be afraid or discouraged. Be strong and courageous, for the LORD will do this to all the enemies you fight.”
（2Kgs 17:39）	but fear the LORD your God, and he will rescue you from all your enemies.”
（2Chr 20:17）	You do not have to fight this battle. Position yourselves, stand still, and see the salvation of the LORD. He is with you, Judah and Jerusalem. Do not be afraid or discouraged. Tomorrow, go out to face them, for the LORD is with you.’”
（Ps 55:18）	Though many are against me, he will redeem me from my battle unharmed.
（Ps 81:13-16）	If only my people would listen to me and Israel would follow my ways,I would quickly subdue their enemies and turn my hand against their foes.”Those who hate the LORD would cower to him; their doom would last forever.But he would feed Israel with the best wheat. “I would satisfy you with honey from the rock.”
（Isa 30:30）	And the LORD will make the splendor of his voice heard and reveal his arm striking in angry wrath and a flame of consuming fire, in driving rain, a torrent, and hailstones.
（Isa 30:32）	And every stroke of the appointed staff that the LORD brings down on him will be to the sound of tambourines and lyres; he will fight against him with brandished weapons.
（Isa 41:11-12）	Be sure that all who are enraged against you will be ashamed and disgraced; those who contend with you will become as nothing and will perish.You will look for those who contend with you, but you will not find them. Those who war against you will become absolutely nothing.
（Isa 49:25）	For this is what the LORD says: “Even the captives of a mighty man will be taken, and the prey of a tyrant will be delivered; I will contend with the one who contends with you, and I will save your children.
（Isa 54:15）	If anyone attacks you, it is not from me; whoever attacks you will fall before you.
（Isa 54:17）	No weapon formed against you will succeed, and you will refute any accusation raised against you in court. This is the heritage of the LORD’s servants, and their vindication is from me.” This is the LORD’s declaration.
（Jer 50:33-34）	This is what the LORD of Armies says: Israelites and Judeans alike have been oppressed. All their captors hold them fast; they refuse to release them.Their Redeemer is strong; the LORD of Armies is his name. He will fervently champion their cause so that he might bring rest to the earth but turmoil to those who live in Babylon.
（Ezek 34:27）	The trees of the field will yield their fruit, and the land will yield its produce; my flock will be secure in their land. They will know that I am the LORD when I break the bars of their yoke and rescue them from the power of those who enslave them.
（Mic 2:13）	One who breaks open the way will advance before them; they will break out, pass through the city gate, and leave by it. Their King will pass through before them, the LORD as their leader.

4.25.{3}	Promises on the Power of the Cross Over Satan
（Gen 3:15）	I will put hostility between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. He will strike your head, and you will strike his heel.
（Isa 27:1）	On that day the LORD with his relentless, large, strong sword will bring judgment on Leviathan, the fleeing serpent — Leviathan, the twisting serpent. He will slay the monster that is in the sea.
（Mic 5:11-12）	I will remove the cities of your land and tear down all your fortresses.I will remove sorceries from your hands, and you will not have any more fortune-tellers.
（Luke 10:19）	Look, I have given you the authority to trample on snakes and scorpions and over all the power of the enemy; nothing at all will harm you.
（John 12:31-32）	Now is the judgment of this world. Now the ruler of this world will be cast out.As for me, if I am lifted up from the earth I will draw all people to myself.”
（Col 1:13）	He has rescued us from the domain of darkness and transferred us into the kingdom of the Son he loves.
（Col 2:14-15）	He erased the certificate of debt, with its obligations, that was against us and opposed to us, and has taken it away by nailing it to the cross.He disarmed the rulers and authorities and disgraced them publicly; he triumphed over them in him.
（Heb 2:14-15）	Now since the children have flesh and blood in common, Jesus also shared in these, so that through his death he might destroy the one holding the power of death — that is, the devil  —and free those who were held in slavery all their lives by the fear of death.
（Jas 4:7）	Therefore, submit to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.
（1Pet 3:22）	who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God with angels, authorities, and powers subject to him.
（1John 3:8）	The one who commits sin is of the devil, for the devil has sinned from the beginning. The Son of God was revealed for this purpose: to destroy the devil’s works.
（1John 4:4）	You are from God, little children, and you have conquered them, because the one who is in you is greater than the one who is in the world.
（1John 5:4）	because everyone who has been born of God conquers the world. This is the victory that has conquered the world: our faith.
（1John 5:18）	We know that everyone who has been born of God does not sin, but the one who is born of God keeps him, and the evil one does not touch him.
（Rev 12:10-11）	Then I heard a loud voice in heaven say, The salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ have now come, because the accuser of our brothers and sisters, who accuses them before our God day and night, has been thrown down.They conquered him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony; for they did not love their lives to the point of death.
（Rev 17:14）	These will make war against the Lamb, but the Lamb will conquer them because he is Lord of lords and King of kings. Those with him are called, chosen, and faithful.”

4.26.{3}	Promises to Save Our Children and Future Generations
（Gen 17:7）	I will confirm my covenant that is between me and you and your future offspring throughout their generations. It is a permanent covenant to be your God and the God of your offspring after you.
（Deut 4:37）	Because he loved your fathers, he chose their descendants after them and brought you out of Egypt by his presence and great power,
（Ps 22:31）	They will come and declare his righteousness; to a people yet to be born they will declare what he has done.
（Ps 102:28）	Your servants’ children will dwell securely, and their offspring will be established before you.”
（Isa 44:3-5）	For I will pour water on the thirsty land and streams on the dry ground; I will pour out my Spirit on your descendants and my blessing on your offspring.They will sprout among the grass like poplars by flowing streams.This one will say, ‘I am the LORD’s’; another will use the name of Jacob; still another will write on his hand, ‘The LORD’s,’ and take on the name of Israel.”
（Isa 59:21）	“As for me, this is my covenant with them,” says the LORD: “My Spirit who is on you, and my words that I have put in your mouth, will not depart from your mouth, or from the mouths of your children, or from the mouths of your children’s children, from now on and forever,” says the LORD.
（Isa 61:9）	Their descendants will be known among the nations, and their posterity among the peoples. All who see them will recognize that they are a people the LORD has blessed.
（Isa 65:23-24）	They will not labor without success or bear children destined for disaster, for they will be a people blessed by the LORD along with their descendants.Even before they call, I will answer; while they are still speaking, I will hear.
（Jer 30:10）	As for you, my servant Jacob, do not be afraid — this is the LORD’s declaration — and do not be discouraged, Israel, for without fail I will save you out of a distant place, your descendants, from the land of their captivity! Jacob will return and have calm and quiet with no one to frighten him.
（Jer 31:16-17）	This is what the LORD says: Keep your voice from weeping and your eyes from tears, for the reward for your work will come — this is the LORD’s declaration — and your children will return from the enemy’s land.There is hope for your future  — this is the LORD’s declaration — and your children will return to their own territory.
（Deut 4:40）	Keep his statutes and commands, which I am giving you today, so that you and your children after you may prosper and so that you may live long in the land the LORD your God is giving you for all time.”
（Deut 5:29）	If only they had such a heart to fear me and keep all my commands always, so that they and their children would prosper forever.
（Deut 12:28）	Be careful to obey all these things I command you, so that you and your children after you may prosper forever, because you will be doing what is good and right in the sight of the LORD your God.
（Deut 5:16）	Honor your father and your mother, as the LORD your God has commanded you, so that you may live long and so that you may prosper in the land the LORD your God is giving you.
（Deut 11:18-21）	“Imprint these words of mine on your hearts and minds, bind them as a sign on your hands, and let them be a symbol on your foreheads.Teach them to your children, talking about them when you sit in your house and when you walk along the road, when you lie down and when you get up.Write them on the doorposts of your house and on your city gates,so that as long as the heavens are above the earth, your days and those of your children may be many in the land the LORD swore to give your fathers.
（Ps 112:1-2）	Hallelujah! Happy is the person who fears the LORD, taking great delight in his commands.His descendants will be powerful in the land; the generation of the upright will be blessed.
（Prov 20:7）	A righteous person acts with integrity; his children who come after him will be happy.

4.27.{3}	Promises to Those Who Seek God
（Ps 34:10）	Young lions lack food and go hungry, but those who seek the LORD will not lack any good thing.
（Ezra 8:22）	I did this because I was ashamed to ask the king for infantry and cavalry to protect us from enemies during the journey, since we had told him, “The hand of our God is gracious to all who seek him, but his fierce anger is against all who abandon him.”
（2Chr 7:14）	and my people, who bear my name, humble themselves, pray and seek my face, and turn from their evil ways, then I will hear from heaven, forgive their sin, and heal their land.
（Deut 4:29）	But from there, you will search for the LORD your God, and you will find him when you seek him with all your heart and all your soul.
（Prov 28:5）	The evil do not understand justice, but those who seek the LORD understand everything.
（Isa 45:19）	I have not spoken in secret, somewhere in a land of darkness. I did not say to the descendants of Jacob: Seek me in a wasteland. I am the LORD, who speaks righteously, who declares what is right.
（Prov 2:3-5）	furthermore, if you call out to insight and lift your voice to understanding,if you seek it like silver and search for it like hidden treasure,then you will understand the fear of the LORD and discover the knowledge of God.
（Hos 10:12）	Sow righteousness for yourselves and reap faithful love; break up your unplowed ground. It is time to seek the LORD until he comes and sends righteousness on you like the rain.
（Luke 6:21）	Blessed are you who are now hungry, because you will be filled. Blessed are you who weep now, because you will laugh.
（John 6:35）	“I am the bread of life,” Jesus told them. “No one who comes to me will ever be hungry, and no one who believes in me will ever be thirsty again.
（2Chr 15:4）	but when they turned to the LORD God of Israel in their distress and sought him, he was found by them.
（Hos 6:1-3）	Come, let us return to the LORD. For he has torn us, and he will heal us; he has wounded us, and he will bind up our wounds.He will revive us after two days, and on the third day he will raise us up so we can live in his presence.Let us strive to know the LORD. His appearance is as sure as the dawn. He will come to us like the rain, like the spring showers that water the land.
（Isa 55:6-7）	Seek the LORD while he may be found; call to him while he is near.Let the wicked one abandon his way and the sinful one his thoughts; let him return to the LORD, so he may have compassion on him, and to our God, for he will freely forgive.
（Ps 24:3-6）	Who may ascend the mountain of the LORD? Who may stand in his holy place?The one who has clean hands and a pure heart, who has not appealed to what is false, and who has not sworn deceitfully.He will receive blessing from the LORD, and righteousness from the God of his salvation.Such is the generation of those who inquire of him, who seek the face of the God of Jacob. Selah
（Ps 69:32）	The humble will see it and rejoice. You who seek God, take heart!
（Ps 34:4）	I sought the LORD, and he answered me and rescued me from all my fears.
（Ps 22:26）	The humble will eat and be satisfied; those who seek the LORD will praise him. May your hearts live forever!
（Ps 40:16）	Let all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you; let those who love your salvation continually say, “The LORD is great!”
（Ps 70:4）	Let all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you; let those who love your salvation continually say, “God is great!”
（Ps 105:3）	Honor his holy name; let the hearts of those who seek the LORD rejoice.
（Amos 5:4）	For the LORD says to the house of Israel: Seek me and live!
（Matt 7:7）	“Ask, and it will be given to you. Seek, and you will find. Knock, and the door will be opened to you.
（Matt 6:33）	But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be provided for you.
（Heb 11:6）	Now without faith it is impossible to please God, since the one who draws near to him must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who seek him.

4.28.{3}	Promises to Those Who Fear God
（Ps 25:12-14）	Who is this person who fears the LORD? He will show him the way he should choose.He will live a good life, and his descendants will inherit the land.The secret counsel of the LORD is for those who fear him, and he reveals his covenant to them.
（Ps 31:19-20）	How great is your goodness that you have stored up for those who fear you and accomplished in the sight of everyone for those who take refuge in you.You hide them in the protection of your presence; you conceal them in a shelter from human schemes, from quarrelsome tongues.
（Ps 33:18）	But look, the LORD keeps his eye on those who fear him — those who depend on his faithful love
（Ps 34:7）	The angel of the LORD encamps around those who fear him, and rescues them.
（Ps 60:4）	You have given a signal flag to those who fear you, so that they can flee before the archers. Selah
（Ps 103:13）	As a father has compassion on his children, so the LORD has compassion on those who fear him.
（Ps 103:17）	But from eternity to eternity the LORD’s faithful love is toward those who fear him, and his righteousness toward the grandchildren
（Ps 112:1-2）	Hallelujah! Happy is the person who fears the LORD, taking great delight in his commands.His descendants will be powerful in the land; the generation of the upright will be blessed.
（Ps 112:1）	Hallelujah! Happy is the person who fears the LORD, taking great delight in his commands.
（Ps 112:7-8）	He will not fear bad news; his heart is confident, trusting in the LORD.His heart is assured; he will not fear. In the end he will look in triumph on his foes.
（Ps 115:13）	he will bless those who fear the LORD  — small and great alike.
（Ps 128:1-4）	A song of ascents. [1] How happy is everyone who fears the LORD, who walks in his ways!You will surely eat what your hands have worked for. You will be happy, and it will go well for you.Your wife will be like a fruitful vine within your house, your children, like young olive trees around your table.In this very way the man who fears the LORD will be blessed.
（Ps 147:11）	The LORD values those who fear him, those who put their hope in his faithful love.
（Prov 14:26-27）	In the fear of the LORD one has strong confidence and his children have a refuge.The fear of the LORD is a fountain of life, turning people away from the snares of death.
（Prov 19:23）	The fear of the LORD leads to life; one will sleep at night without danger.
（Isa 33:6）	There will be times of security for you — a storehouse of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge. The fear of the LORD is Zion’s treasure.
（Mal 4:2）	But for you who fear my name, the sun of righteousness will rise with healing in its wings, and you will go out and playfully jump like calves from the stall.
（Jer 32:38-40）	They will be my people, and I will be their God.I will give them integrity of heart and action so that they will fear me always, for their good and for the good of their descendants after them.“I will make a permanent covenant with them: I will never turn away from doing good to them, and I will put fear of me in their hearts so they will never again turn away from me.

4.29.{3}	Promises to the Humble
（Ps 25:8-9）	The LORD is good and upright; therefore he shows sinners the way.He leads the humble in what is right and teaches them his way.
（Ps 51:17）	The sacrifice pleasing to God is a broken spirit. You will not despise a broken and humbled heart, God.
（Ps 138:6）	Though the LORD is exalted, he takes note of the humble; but he knows the haughty from a distance.
（Isa 57:15）	For the High and Exalted One, who lives forever, whose name is holy, says this: “I live in a high and holy place, and with the oppressed and lowly of spirit, to revive the spirit of the lowly and revive the heart of the oppressed.
（Isa 66:2）	My hand made all these things, and so they all came into being. This is the LORD’s declaration. I will look favorably on this kind of person: one who is humble, submissive in spirit, and trembles at my word.
（Ps 146:8）	The LORD opens the eyes of the blind. The LORD raises up those who are oppressed. The LORD loves the righteous.
（Matt 23:12）	Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
（Jas 4:6）	But he gives greater grace. Therefore he says: God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble.
（Jas 4:10）	Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you.
（1Pet 5:5-7）	In the same way, you who are younger, be subject to the elders. All of you clothe yourselves with humility toward one another, because God resists the proud but gives grace to the humble.Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, so that he may exalt you at the proper time,casting all your cares on him, because he cares about you.

4.30.{3}	Promises to the Generous
（Deut 15:10）	Give to him, and don’t have a stingy heart when you give, and because of this the LORD your God will bless you in all your work and in everything you do.
（Deut 23:20）	You may charge a foreigner interest, but you must not charge your brother Israelite interest, so that the LORD your God may bless you in everything you do in the land you are entering to possess.
（Deut 24:19）	“When you reap the harvest in your field, and you forget a sheaf in the field, do not go back to get it. It is to be left for the resident alien, the fatherless, and the widow, so that the LORD your God may bless you in all the work of your hands.
（Ps 37:26）	He is always generous, always lending, and his children are a blessing.
（Ps 112:5）	Good will come to the one who lends generously and conducts his business fairly.
（Prov 19:17）	Kindness to the poor is a loan to the LORD, and he will give a reward to the lender.
（Prov 28:27）	The one who gives to the poor will not be in need, but one who turns his eyes away will receive many curses.
（Luke 6:38）	Give, and it will be given to you; a good measure — pressed down, shaken together, and running over — will be poured into your lap. For with the measure you use, it will be measured back to you.”
（Luke 14:12-14）	He also said to the one who had invited him, “When you give a lunch or a dinner, don’t invite your friends, your brothers or sisters, your relatives, or your rich neighbors, because they might invite you back, and you would be repaid.On the contrary, when you host a banquet, invite those who are poor, maimed, lame, or blind.And you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you; for you will be repaid at the resurrection of the righteous.”
（2Cor 9:6）	The point is this: The person who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and the person who sows generously will also reap generously.
（2Cor 9:8）	And God is able to make every grace overflow to you, so that in every way, always having everything you need, you may excel in every good work.
（2Cor 9:10-11）	Now the one who provides seed for the sower and bread for food will also provide and multiply your seed and increase the harvest of your righteousness.You will be enriched in every way for all generosity, which produces thanksgiving to God through us.

4.31.{3}	Promises to the Obedient
（Deut 11:8）	“Keep every command I am giving you today, so that you may have the strength to cross into and possess the land you are to inherit,
（2Chr 16:9）	For the eyes of the LORD roam throughout the earth to show himself strong for those who are wholeheartedly devoted to him. You have been foolish in this matter. Therefore, you will have wars from now on.”
（Job 17:9）	Yet the righteous person will hold to his way, and the one whose hands are clean will grow stronger.
（Ps 50:23）	Whoever sacrifices a thank offering honors me, and whoever orders his conduct, I will show him the salvation of God.”
（Ps 84:11-12）	For the LORD God is a sun and shield. The LORD grants favor and honor; he does not withhold the good from those who live with integrity.Happy is the person who trusts in you, LORD of Armies!
（Prov 20:7）	A righteous person acts with integrity; his children who come after him will be happy.
（Prov 21:21）	The one who pursues righteousness and faithful love will find life, righteousness, and honor.
（Eccl 2:25-26）	because who can eat and who can enjoy life apart from him?For to the person who is pleasing in his sight, he gives wisdom, knowledge, and joy; but to the sinner he gives the task of gathering and accumulating in order to give to the one who is pleasing in God’s sight. This too is futile and a pursuit of the wind.
（Isa 48:18）	If only you had paid attention to my commands. Then your peace would have been like a river, and your righteousness like the waves of the sea.
（Isa 64:5）	You welcome the one who joyfully does what is right; they remember you in your ways. But we have sinned, and you were angry. How can we be saved if we remain in our sins?
（Jer 7:23）	However, I did give them this command: ‘Obey me, and then I will be your God, and you will be my people. Follow every way I command you so that it may go well with you.’
（Mark 10:29-30）	“Truly I tell you,” Jesus said, “there is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for my sake and for the sake of the gospel,who will not receive a hundred times more, now at this time  — houses, brothers and sisters, mothers and children, and fields, with persecutions  — and eternal life in the age to come.
（Luke 12:42-44）	The Lord said: “Who then is the faithful and sensible manager his master will put in charge of his household servants to give them their allotted food at the proper time?Blessed is that servant whom the master finds doing his job when he comes.Truly I tell you, he will put him in charge of all his possessions.
（Luke 19:17）	“‘Well done, good servant! ’ he told him. ‘Because you have been faithful in a very small matter, have authority over ten towns.’
（John 8:31-32）	Then Jesus said to the Jews who had believed him, “If you continue in my word, you really are my disciples.You will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.”
（John 14:23）	Jesus answered, “If anyone loves me, he will keep my word. My Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him.
（John 14:21）	The one who has my commands and keeps them is the one who loves me. And the one who loves me will be loved by my Father. I also will love him and will reveal myself to him.”
（Acts 5:32）	We are witnesses of these things, and so is the Holy Spirit whom God has given to those who obey him.”
（Eph 6:8）	knowing that whatever good each one does, slave or free, he will receive this back from the Lord.
（Phil 4:9）	Do what you have learned and received and heard from me, and seen in me, and the God of peace will be with you.
（2Tim 2:19-21）	Nevertheless, God’s solid foundation stands firm, bearing this inscription: The Lord knows those who are his, and let everyone who calls on the name of the Lord turn away from wickedness.Now in a large house there are not only gold and silver vessels, but also those of wood and clay; some for honorable use and some for dishonorable.So if anyone purifies himself from anything dishonorable, he will be a special instrument, set apart, useful to the Master, prepared for every good work.
（Jas 1:25）	But the one who looks intently into the perfect law of freedom and perseveres in it, and is not a forgetful hearer but a doer who works — this person will be blessed in what he does.
（1Pet 3:12）	because the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous and his ears are open to their prayer. But the face of the Lord is against those who do what is evil.
（1John 2:10）	The one who loves his brother or sister remains in the light, and there is no cause for stumbling in him.
（1John 3:21-22）	Dear friends, if our hearts don’t condemn us, we have confidence before Godand receive whatever we ask from him because we keep his commands and do what is pleasing in his sight.
（Rev 1:3）	Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear the words of this prophecy and keep what is written in it, because the time is near.
（Rev 3:4-5）	But you have a few people in Sardis who have not defiled their clothes, and they will walk with me in white, because they are worthy.“In the same way, the one who conquers will be dressed in white clothes, and I will never erase his name from the book of life but will acknowledge his name before my Father and before his angels.
（Rev 14:13）	Then I heard a voice from heaven saying, “Write: Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on.” “Yes,” says the Spirit, “so they will rest from their labors, since their works follow them.”
（Rev 22:7）	“Look, I am coming soon! Blessed is the one who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book.”
（John 8:29）	The one who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, because I always do what pleases him.”

4.32.{3}	Promises to Those Facing Death
（Ps 68:20）	Our God is a God of salvation, and escape from death belongs to the LORD my Lord.
（Isa 53:12）	Therefore I will give him the many as a portion, and he will receive the mighty as spoil, because he willingly submitted to death, and was counted among the rebels; yet he bore the sin of many and interceded for the rebels.
（Heb 2:9）	But we do see Jesus —  made lower than the angels for a short time so that by God’s grace he might taste death for everyone —  crowned with glory and honor because he suffered death.
（Isa 25:8）	he will destroy death forever. The Lord GOD will wipe away the tears from every face and remove his people’s disgrace from the whole earth, for the LORD has spoken.
（Ps 109:31）	For he stands at the right hand of the needy to save him from those who would condemn him.
（Luke 1:78-79）	Because of our God’s merciful compassion, the dawn from on high will visit usto shine on those who live in darkness and the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace.
（John 5:24）	“Truly I tell you, anyone who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life and will not come under judgment but has passed from death to life.
（Ps 23:4）	Even when I go through the darkest valley, I fear no danger, for you are with me; your rod and your staff — they comfort me.
（Heb 2:14-15）	Now since the children have flesh and blood in common, Jesus also shared in these, so that through his death he might destroy the one holding the power of death — that is, the devil  —and free those who were held in slavery all their lives by the fear of death.
（Ps 116:15）	The death of his faithful ones is valuable in the LORD’s sight.
（2Cor 5:1）	For we know that if our earthly tent we live in is destroyed, we have a building from God, an eternal dwelling in the heavens, not made with hands.
（Rom 8:38-39）	For I am persuaded that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present nor things to come, nor powers,nor height nor depth, nor any other created thing will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
（1Cor 15:55-57）	Where, death, is your victory? Where, death, is your sting?The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law.But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ!
（1Cor 15:21）	For since death came through a man, the resurrection of the dead also comes through a man.
（Rev 20:6）	Blessed and holy is the one who shares in the first resurrection! The second death has no power over them, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and they will reign with him for a thousand years.
（2Tim 1:9-10）	He has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus before time began.This has now been made evident through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who has abolished death and has brought life and immortality to light through the gospel.
（Rev 1:17-18）	When I saw him, I fell at his feet like a dead man. He laid his right hand on me and said, “Don’t be afraid. I am the First and the Last,and the Living One. I was dead, but look — I am alive forever and ever, and I hold the keys of death and Hades.
（Rev 21:4）	He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Death will be no more; grief, crying, and pain will be no more, because the previous things have passed away.
